Hello again.
Delightful God.
People in this video.
We're going to have a very diet and more food or to put that a little more sensibly.
We can turn that basic project we've created in two random food items.
So let's get started by running straight in here and morning the Scripps holder.
And if we take a look under scenes and ammo and under models you'll find we've got a bunch of things
in here.
Some materials some textures they go into as materials and some meshes we really care about the mesh.
So there's a burger a cookie or a biscuit depending on where you're on the world cup cake doughnut a
hotdog an ice cream a soda and a milkshake.
And yes this milkshake can bring all the boys to the yard.
But I mean leave that up to you is entirely your decision.
How many boys if any are brought to the yard by your milkshake.
So if we go back up to the ammo you'll see we got a projector here and a new folder.
McCall this ammo models and this is the folder where we're we're going to save a different projectile
for each type of food.
Right so we've got a burger with a cookie.
When a cupcake by the end of this video whenever you press Fire God is going to pick a random food item
and fire that some things you should know.
They're not all the same size and in some of them the origin is in the centre of the model.
And some of it's at the bottom so you might have to do some tweaking.
Why am I saying you might have some tweaking because we're going to start with a challenge.
We're doing a challenge earlier than we normally do.
I want you to make more food you don't have to do all of them.
I'm going to do all of them but you don't have to make at least two types of food to far as I mean action.
And remember we want them to be in this fold.
The AMA models are also going to save them in here to get you started.
What we're going to be doing is doing a new inherited scene and the new inherited scene is going to
herit from ammo projectile a day and it's going save in here some pause the video give it a shot.
When you feel you got the feel of it or you've feel got the feel of it that's some great English right
there.
When you feel you're in the flow and you understand what you're doing you've solved a problem you might
have unpleasant video come back or if you really conflict do all of them come back.
But either way pause the video give it a shot and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
And we'll come back.
I guess the first thing to do is open a baseline you inherit from projectile.
And as you might remember projectile is a simple mesh of a sphere with a coalition ship.
Now I've got different sized things to come in.
And if I resize the mesh instance or the collision shape it's going to resize for all of them because
this is inherited.
So instead I'm going to bring in a new leisz instance and I'm going to hide the original right.
I really use this as a reference size and this is going to be in models.
Let's start with Berger and we bring the bug.
And you see immediately the burger is not quite the right size but that's okay.
Now when I recite it so let's see one point twenty five How does that feel.
On point five point five.
Great.
It fills up a lot more if the collision shape and that's the size it's going to be.
Okay so I'm going to save this as burghardt says call that berga.
And save this in Ammer models.
Awesome.
Now going to repeat the same process so new inherited scene I'm inheriting from projectile.
And this one is going to have a new mash.
It's going to be the cookie biscuit thing.
Now that's much bigger.
Sumner transformed that down so let's say zero point fat
and get rid of the original mash and that's too small so we're going to call that point seventy five.
Looking much better.
But look it's not quite centred it's off to the side there so the take off snap and just tweak it.
And you see where I'm going with this right so I'm going to speed up the video I'll do the rest.
Now I'm going to go crazy with a speed up but I'll try make it so it doesn't take too long and I will
work through all the rest of these objects up first before I do that first I at its core you keep safe
you and animals and a cookie for some reason and it's probably because I play Star Wars Galaxies for
I don't know nine years from my youth.
I always one spoke hooky with to ease as if it's related to a Wookie.
It's not.
It's confusing.
So speed up the video.
Well doing new inherited scene and stop the projector.
And welcome back.
Some of these I've had to recite to fit with this collision shape.
Some of them have had to move because their origin was a good example.
I think the cupcake example the origin actually the cupcake is good.
I mean the milkshake there is no shaikh's Origin is in its centre.
But what I wanted is answered all the projectiles to be the same size.
Right.
And that is why I'm sorry I'm giving a second meche to fit within this coalition shape.
Now when I fire it they will all be the right size.
I could have remove the collision shape from my original scene.
I can just remove the skeleton shape and given each one its glitter shape.
But I don't want tiny predict does enlarge projectiles apart from the else I want the player to have
an equal chance of knowing if something is going to hit them or the mpac or whatever they're firing
at or being fired from.
So this gives us a lot of consistency.
So now I have a folder with a whole bunch of ammunition.
Let's go into our scripts.
And if I go into character into the fire function right here I've got the projectile.
We're not going to be firing the projectile.
Instead let's make a brandnew variable and I call this family types
and I'm gonna make this a dictionary.
Now this could be an array but I prefer working with dictionaries because I find having a key and a
value really simple to use.
This is more from my personal debugging right so if I know that I've picked ammo 3 I can see what I'm
of three years now.
I could do this right now.
One is that copy that path or other m0 0 is a burger and I could do it's a new one with he one and a
cookie and a copy this and this will absolutely work right.
And just to demonstrate this will work.
Let's make this actually works a variable random not needle at random.
You taking some new exciting skill and discard bullet equals ammo types and what I want.
I want a random thing within.
So let's pick a random integer.
I do this second and I want to modulate by ammo types size or whatever the size of this is going to
modulate that.
Now for that to work I need to set a random seed rate if I want to call random.
I need to randomize the best place to do that is right at the beginning.
Let's do a function ready.
Actually I could do this on a tree.
The reason why I'm hesitating is ready will call when all the child nodes are done and maybe I don't
want that I could do this on Enter tree which would be like this would be the number script called Run
this immediately.
I'm actually go do a tree for now just to demonstrate that's all work.
But realistically in this case really would probably work OK.
So what I want to do ought to randomize randomise there is and I need to put brackets there.
There's a built in function.
Awesome.
So the moment we enter the tree going to randomize right now I'm sure the test with these two.
One more thing to do.
I'm not gonna load this scene.
I'm going to load random bullet so let's load random bullet as an instance.
Let's give that a quick test of space and I should have two types of thing.
I could fire dreich cookies and burgers and because I've got no protection of.
Because I've got no limit on how many I could fire at the same time.
We're kind of flooding the place with cookies and burgers and this will work fine.
Couple of things I don't like.
1.
If I keep adding all of these this is going to get huge and yes I could move this to a different node
and call it from there.
The other thing I don't like is what if I want to keep adding mashers or I want to remove one.
Let's say my teen decide they don't like this cupcake thing a little me for different cupcakes and remove
the ice cream completely.
Maybe milkshakes aren't fanatic.
Why don't we make this easy for selves.
We make a brand new script.
So when you go into a file over here while I'm looking the scraps file new I will make a new script
it will going a place in scraps and I'm going to call this file underscore.
I mean with the mouse you could sort of call it file on a grabber.
Why am I making a file grabber because I'm picturing a script that can be loaded as a singleton.
They can be told here is your directory.
Go grab all the files and tell me what they are.
Okay.
Now we don't have to do it this way but let me tell you why this is awesome.
First we can easily add and remove food from the game.
Right.
If there is a file in this fall it's in the game and if it's not in the folder for whatever reason it's
not in and again Secondly this function we're going to be doing a few more times for example we're going
to do character customization and the way we're doing it specifically is applying a texture.
Well we could add as many taxes as we like and this will just go grab them.
We could do this with music we could do this a whole bunch of things.
Let's make this simple for us.
LS OK.
So I'm going to have file grabber before I even get started.
I mean I put this as a singleton.
I'm going to go to auto load and go find it in scripts.
Here's my file gabelich right now doesn't do anything with it enable it.
Vargrave it is going to have a single function.
We have get files and the whole point is I want to get files from a specific place.
Can I get an argument called falder all of this is going to be using file right so if I go look at the
file class we've got a whole bunch of stuff we can do here.
Some of this we've seen before.
Remember when we were loading and passing Jason's stuff some of us got very similar but I need a few
things the first thing I need to do is know what files a faults I'm only make something called him Dad
files.
And again I'm using a dictionary.
You could make this work with an array.
I prefer to work with dictionaries because that way I can use use the key I can pick a random number
within a certain size and work that way.
However you could absolutely use an array.
It's just a personal preference.
So we have our gathered files which is going to be a dictionary a dictionary requires a key.
Mike he is going to be the number of files I file count.
I'm going to start at zero.
Finally I need to know the directories and to make a new very local directory.
And that's going to be directory which is a class and directory can have new if I want to look up directory.
I can just open it.
And here's a bunch of things it can do including list directory beginning and all the other things that's
really caught.
We use a lot of fun things here.
Okay first thing to do is to open its list of directory open.
And are we opening.
We are opening the folder.
Whatever argument I've got in open that as a director.
And remember you can look up here I will link to the documentation of a directory at a file.
But for now this is pretty easy to read I think should be pretty self-explanatory.
Next I need to know is say okay start from the beginning of the directories So let's go directly dot
list.
And the school directory begins a list from the beginning and that should be a list not a loser list
directory begin.
So what do we want to happen.
Well I want to loop through the directory.
Right.
While there is another file in the directory I want it to be checked.
Is this a valid file if it is put it in here.
And if it isn't Stop what you're doing now.
I'm not going to fall for this news old while loop and I'm going to use while true now.
Be careful with while true because in theory this could run for ever.
So we need to put a stop condition and all this is saying is you will keep doing this while you can.
So we need some sort of break first thing let's do the file.
So what followed talking about the file is the next farm the rhetoric so directory DOT gets the next
day.
So file is the next thing.
We started from the beginning with grad the first one.
I'm going to keep going.
Let's start by checking.
Is there actually an x file.
So if the file has no name which will happen if there is no farce.
If there is no file break another break us out of this loop if we don't have this.
We will go forever and ever and ever.
And don't forget this is double eagles.
Why.
Because I am checking a value not setting up value.
OK.
So we now have a way out of this loop.
The other thing that could happen is that the fact the folder is infinite the folder can't be infinite
because eventually we'll run out of disk space.
So I'm not too worried about that.
Okay.
One more thing that could happen is we could have something like an import file or a hidden file or
something like that.
So let's do an L if not file dot begins with.
And if it begins with Dot What does this mean if the file name begins with the dot.
That's not going to happen on normal folders.
So as long as a normal file folder then add it to the get the files.
OK so let's gather files.
We need to add this to a dictionary so let's figure out what key to add it to what we have that that's
the file counts file count.
Equals.
And it's just going be the path and the file name.
Well that's easy which is default a plus file rate.
Finally to file underscore count plus equals 1.
And that will just grab everything in there.
One more thing we need to do another script.
Another function in another script is going to run this.
We need to pass the information back on to do it.
I'm going to go back to this indentation and return gathered files.
Be careful.
It has to be at this level of indentation if it isn't.
If it's say here look where it runs we're going to start this loop.
If there is a file and it is a valid file added to the dictionary immediately return it and that will
bring us out of this loop right.
So we all get exactly one file and that's useless to us.
If I put it here where does it run it's gonna run as part of an IF condition.
I don't want to try as an IF condition that's within this while true I want it to run when this has
stopped.
If it's here it'll run through this once no matter what happens.
It'll return gathered files we could get some really.
We get some really odd results here here.
It'll happen once this code block has finished the while loop will not let lines 18 and 19 run while
it's running.
So we will see.
We will run it when we can't run it anymore.
We all return gathered files to whoever call it and that's what I want.
OK.
So let's make sure this actually works.
So a random bullet is going to call from amoc types.
Let's make amateur types an empty dictionary.
And now let's set camma type so ammo types doing right here on a tree.
If I was doing it if I was using ready I'd use ready.
But I want to use a tree because I want it immediately.
Don't do anything else.
The moment you're ready.
Get this.
I want this amateur types filled first and what they're going to be.
Well I'm going to file grabber which is auto loaded so I know it's going to work and the function is
get files.
There it is now I just need the path as a string something at ammo.
I'm going to copy the path to the AMA models folder.
Here's where it is and place it in.
And now if everything is good I press play.
Look at the facts.
OK so this is a little bit of work to be done.
I wanted a wooshing sound when we fire and I also want to limit how many times you could fire.
That's pretty easy I can do that with a timer and a future video.
But look we have so much colour and excitement going on.
This is awesome.
I might need some brighter like as is too much blue going on in the shadow but I'm really happy with
that.
And that brings us to the end of the video in this video.
We've looked at how to scan a directory for files which is a really cool skill to have and it's going
to serve us quite well in future.
We need to do this in a couple more scripts and with picked Rand more ammunition every time we fired.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.